So let's give ourselves a little room and equation number five.
Always make sure that you wrote this formula down correct, as there is a lot of errors that are made
on simple things like Excel and all we have to do is just plug in our information.
As you see over here, we have our zero times is your witness to this is kind of equal to zero.
So I'm just going to have that anymore.
So we have zero is equal to one point five plus.
Hey, let's just do this in the calculator right now.
So we have one half times that point sixty two squared and we get zero point one nine two two and times
are acceleration.
OK, now we're solving for our acceleration.
We have this term over here and we have another term over here.
Let's get it by itself, by getting rid of this positive one point five.
How do we do that?
Subtract one point five on both sides of the equation.
OK, so now we're here, now we have multiplication of zero point one nine two two.
So how do we get rid of the multiplication of point one on two to divide both sides by point one nine
two two, and that gives me a negative seven point eight.
Zero four as my acceleration.
And that's in meters per second squared.
OK, so this is what we calculate it for, our acceleration.
Hey, wait a minute, didn't the reading before tell us that the acceleration is supposed to be negative,
nine point eight meters per second squared?
OK, so.
It's it's in the ballpark.
OK, so we say that we did a pretty good job over here.
Perfect.
No, I wouldn't say so, but yeah, I think that this is pretty good, so.
How come we didn't come up with negative nine point?
Well, first of all, what is this negative representing?
Isn't the object falling down so this is representing the direction of the acceleration downwards?
OK, so why didn't we get this answer?
Why don't we get negative nine point eight, which is what the scientists actually calculate?
Well.
I was doing this experiment by myself, I didn't really have any help not to be making excuses or anything
like that, but I wasn't using the most technical equipment.
And there's human error involved here.
Maybe I didn't start the stopwatch or s the stopwatch at the right time.
So I should have and maybe there was a just a little bit of error involved right there.
All right.
So let's do another experiment right now, huh?
Let's see how much I was off.
So obviously the only part that really could be off is the idea that this average time is incorrect.
And I want to calculate that I want to see what the time should have been, let's calculate out our
time and.
Let's use the negative nine point eight.
Meters per second squared.
OK, so what time should we have gotten if we still don't care about our final velocity?
Aren't we still going to be using the exact same formula and just trying to determine our Delta T?
Well, yes, so let's do that.
So I'm just going to erase all of this right in here, our final height is still zero, our initial
height is still one point five.
Hey, that didn't change our initial velocity.
Hey, I'm not throwing the ball up or down at all.
I'm just letting go.
Times are Delta T WashU we've calculated here.
Usually when I do have a multiplication of a negative number, I will wrap around in parentheses just
so that it's not looking like one half minus negative nine point eight.
I think it's a little bit easier to read if that's the case.
So right here, I've zero times Delta T..
Well, we know that zero times any number is equal to zero.
Some just don't cross it out.
And all we're left with here is this.
Let's, uh, let's simplify this.
Let's what's one half of negative nine point eight?
It's going to be positive times, a negative, positive times, the negative will give us a negative
number, right?
So it's going to be negative four point nine times Delta T squared.
OK, so now let's continue to sell this out.
We want to actually isolate our Delta T squared.
Keep in mind that this is Delta T squared.
OK, so how do we go about doing that?
Let's subtract one point five on each side equation, leaving us with this, OK?
And now we have a multiplication of negative four point nine.
So let's divide negative four point nine on both sides.
Equation will have a negative one point five divided by a negative four point nine.
So that will result in a positive answer.
And we have zero point three oh six is equal to our Delta T squared.
I don't care what Delta T squared is.
I want Delta T, so how do we get rid of the squared?
Let's take the square root of both sides of the equation.
And this will give us our delta.
So what should we've done?
Let's take the square root of this zero point five, five seconds.
That's what we should have gotten in order to get calculate out this acceleration of negative nine point
eight meters per second squared.
So it looks like they want maybe this number wasn't really our outlier.
Maybe it was this one, huh?
I didn't really consider that.
I kind of wonder if we would actually get a better answer if we were to have said that our point six
six was our outlier.
Hmm.
Or what you could actually do here to get a better reading is you can actually take not just six recording's,
but take 20 to 40, take 50 to 100, take a thousand.
If you increase the sample size to your accuracy will become a lot greater.
Think about this.
By us using Point Sixta, as opposed to zero point five five thousand point zero seven seconds of a
difference, go into your stopwatch and try to see what point zero seven seconds looks like.
And it is such a small difference, even using the wrong allier to cross out.
I think that we did a pretty good job here having a difference of zero point zero seven seconds.
That's not bad.